- Hey.
- Yeah, Jon Neal here.
You just had sex with me in a hotel
and left without saying goodbye?
Yeah, it ended up being delayed
so... sorry, I was panicking.
Well, if I don't get
to see you again...
...I just wanted to say it
was nice to see you again.
Yeah, it was nice
to see you too.
And listen, use that other
e-mail I gave you...
...because that's the
only secure one, okay?
Okay.
You all right?
Yeah, I'm just...
I'm just jet-lagged. I'm tired.
You should go home and get some
rest. Hong Kong's a long way.
Oh, wait.
Is that you?
Yep, that's me. They're
calling my flight.
All right. Well look, I'm
really glad you called.
- Thanks. Bye.
- Bye.
Please have your boarding
passes out and ready.
Thanks.
- Good morning, Roger.
- Hey.
So you really kicked ass
in that football pool.
You need to give up on your Lions.
Pick with your head, not your heart.
Yeah, thank you for the tip.
- Hey, hey. Hey, doc...
- Yeah?
I know you're busy. I...
- You got a second?
- Sure.
I got a medical question.
My kid's been having
problems at school.
- Attention deficit thing.
- ADHD?
- Yeah.
- He been diagnosed yet?
That's the thing. They
want him to see someone.
I was wondering if you could
take a look at him?
- I'm not really that kind of doctor.
- I didn't know. I just thought...
Maybe I can refer
someone, though.
- Yeah?
- Yeah. It's treatable.
We'll find someone, have
them take a look.
- Shouldn't be a problem.
- Okay.
- All right.
- Yup.
- Thanks, doc.
- You're welcome.
Why doesn't anybody
help him? Is he okay?
Read the posts.
Some say it was staged.
An art project.
Some say the authorities
wouldn't do an autopsy.
Covered it up.
- Covered what up?
- We don't know.
Maybe Minamata disease. You know,
from mercury in the fish.
There have been outbreaks in the past.
Fishing industry suppresses it.
- "Industrial disease".
- Yeah but it's just one man.
- We don't know what happened.
- Just one man on video.
Not everyone has the foresight
to die in front of a camera.
The ones we don't
see worry me.
Fish is shipped all over
the world from there.
How many people read your paper
over a plate of sushi?
Alan, we have almost no freelance
budget anymore and after H1...
You wait. A few days,
this will be tweeted...
We don't wanna be the
paper that cries wolf.
I'll show it to Hobart.
He does our health stuff.
You're gonna give
him my story.
64b
You're gonna give him
my story, aren't you?
No, Alan, I'm trying to help you.
It's just one man on a bus.
- I taped this meeting.
- We need more information than that.
This story runs in the Chronicle,
I will sue your ass.
Great. Okay, bye, Alan.
Don't call me anymore.
Print media is dying, Lorraine.
It's dying. I'll save
you a seat on the bus.
Hi, I'm Mitch Emhoff. I'm Clark's
stepdad. Clark Morrow?
All right, I'll let
him know you're here.
Okay.
He said he was feeling very
warm in Mrs. Tatum's class.
I took his temperature again since I
called. It was a touch over a hundred.
Okay. Well, first his mom and
now the mighty Clark...
All right, let's go get some
soup for you and Mom.
Hope you feel better
Clark, okay?
Okay. Thank you.
Attaboy.
We're gonna beat this thing
down by Turkey Day.
Jory's going straight from the
band trip to her mom's place.
And my job interview got
pushed to next week.
I'm not really sure what that
means. Hopefully nothing.
Hey.
My arm.
Come here, sit down, sit down.
Watch your feet. Come on.
Come on. Come on, honey.
Okay, what happened? Did you
take too much of that flu shit?
Honey? Beth, Beth. Hey, hey,
hey. Honey, honey.
Beth. Jesus. Jesus.
Sweetheart. Hey, Beth.
- Mom?
- No, no. Stay there, Clark. Don't...
Just go... up to
your room, honey.
Honey, honey.
- Beth.
- Beth, can you hear me?
My name's Dr. Arrington.
You're in the hospital.
You had a seizure
this morning, Beth.
- She have a history of seizures?
- No, no, no.
- Allergies?
- I think she's allergic to penicillin.
- She fall recently? Hit her head?
- No, she came back from a trip...
What about drugs?
MDMA? Ecstasy?
No. No, we don't do that.
- Okay, let's get some help in here.
- Jesus. Beth. Beth.
Sir, you have to go.
You have to go.
Let's get a line in her.
And give me 2 milligrams
of Ativan, please.
So, despite all our efforts,
she failed to respond.
- Okay.
- And her heart stopped...
...and unfortunately,
she did die.
Right.
- I'm sorry, Mr. Emhoff.
- I know this is hard to accept.
Okay. I mean, so can
I go talk to her?
Mr. Emhoff, I'm sorry.
Your wife is dead.
I mean, I just saw her.
We were just at home.
Is there somebody
that we can call?
Someone who you think
should be here with you?
I mean, we had dinner. We had pizza.
She said she was jet-lagged.
You mentioned that she
was away. Hong Kong?
We checked the latest bulletins.
The only things there
were measles and H1N1...
...and this was not that.
Then what was it?
We don't always know.
I mean, some people get a disease
and live, some get sicker and die.
We're gonna have to notify
the medical examiner...
...and they may
request an autopsy.
Or if you wish,
we can order one.
But I can't guarantee it's gonna
tell you any more than I can.
I mean, my best guess is that this was
either meningitis or encephalitis...
...and with encephalitis, we're
in the dark a lot of the time.
If it was summer, I might say a
bug bite, you know, West Nile.
- I don't know...
- Herpes can cause encephalitis.
She didn't have herpes.
- What are you talking about?
- Okay.
What happened to her?
- What happened to her?!
- Okay, okay.
Mr. Emhoff, there are
grief counselors...
...who are very helpful with
this sort of passing, okay?
You might find some
resolution there.
Now, I am sorry.
Hello?
Hang up the phone and call 911
right now. Right now. 911.
He said he had a headache,
so I put him to bed.
I don't think he's breathing.
Clark. Clark.
Oh, my God, is he dead?
What we are hearing from Beijing is
that the outbreak is contained...
...to the Chrysanthemum
complex in Hong Kong.
Two deaths and ten
suspected cases.
How are we defining "contained"?
They're using the same protocols
established for SARS.
They're quarantining the complex
and screening for symptoms.
Kowloon is the most densely
populated area in the world...
...and Hong Kong is a harbor.
It's going to spread.
Hong Kong is sending
us blood samples.
We're also looking at
samples from London.
One at a hotel, the other
at a health club.
Five dead, encephalitis.
And there's the man
on the bus in Tokyo.
- Three dead in that cluster.
- Any of them travel to China or London?
We're checking.
Mr. Neal, I want you
to stay with me here.
Can you hear me? Have you had
seizures before, Mr. Neal?
- I want you to open your eyes if you can.
- He's breathing, right?
I couldn't wake him. I got
home, I couldn't wake him.
We both woke up sick
this morning.
Watch your head.
Well, the sulci are obliterated.
Let's look at the base.
Oh, my God.
You want me to take
a sample, or..?
I want you to move
away from the table.
- Should I call someone, or..?
- Call everyone.
Well, these things happen
up there from time to time.
Meningitis in a college dorm
after a swim meet...
...or West Nile in some
summer camp near a lake.
I was reading that last summer they had
an outbreak of enterovirus encephalitis.
A hundred and three cases,
mainly children.
Well, it's probably too cold
up there for that right now.
As of last night, there were five
deaths and thirty-two cases.
There's a cluster in
an elementary school.
That's the kind of thing you
have to be prepared for.
It's gonna be all
over the news.
What's your single overriding
communications objective?
We're isolating the sick and quarantining
those who we believe were exposed.
Okay, good.
As of this moment, you and I are
attached at the cell phone.
If you need resources, call me.
191b
If you get into a political
dogfight, call me.
If you find yourself wide awake,
staring at the walls at 3 AM...
...wondering why you
took the job, call me.
I sure hope you packed something
warmer than that.
We're looking at around zero
with the windchill.
Don't want you to catch cold.
Do you wanna go to the hotel
first, get situated?
I'd prefer to get started,
if that's possible.
- Okay.
- How far is the office?
About a half-hour from here.
Your dad's in isolation.
You can go up to the window, pick up
the phone and you can talk to him.
- Hey.
- Dad.
- Are you sick?
No, no, no. I'm...
This is all just, you know, a precaution.
They're, you know, just making sure.
But you were with them.
You could still get it.
No, I won't. They said this
happens really, really fast.
And I'm fine. There's
nothing wrong with me.
There's nothing wrong with me.
We're okay. We're okay.
And Clark?
Yeah, you know, I...
I wasn't there. I went in
the ambulance with Beth.
And I just didn't... I...
I left him with Carrie Anne.
I should have been there.
- I could have helped.
- No, no, no. Honey, no, no.
It's good that you weren't
there. I'm happy.
If something had happened
to you, I mean, I'd...
Honey, you're here now, you
know. I'm happy about that.
I'm happy about that.
When are you coming home?
Soon. Very soon.
They you know...
- Why don't you go to your mom's?
- No.
- Just stay in Wisconsin.
- No. She doesn't need me.
She's got Dan. I live here.
You don't have anybody.
I'm not leaving you.
We have forty-seven cases and eight
deaths as of 5:00 this afternoon.
It's a weekend. These
numbers might be low.
People are staying home for a couple
days, see if they get better.
At this point, I think we have
to believe this is respiratory.
- Maybe fomites too.
- What's that, fomites?
It refers to transmission
from surfaces.
The average person touches their face
two or three thousand times a day.
- Two or three thousand times a day?
- Three to five times every waking minute.
In between, we're
touching doorknobs...
...water fountains, elevator
buttons and each other.
Those things become fomites.
Is this something we wanna release to
the press? Respiratory and fomites?
- How's the public gonna react?
- Hard to say. A plastic shark in a movie...
will keep people from getting in the
ocean but a warning on cigarettes...
We need to walk the governor through
this before we freak everybody out.
I mean, we can't even tell people right
now what they should be afraid of.
We tried that with swine flu. All we
did was get healthy people scared.
It's the biggest shopping
weekend of the year.
We need to consider
closing schools.
And who stays home with the kids?
People that work at stores.
Government workers. People
that work at hospitals.
When will we know what this is?
What causes it, what cures it?
Things that keep people calm.
What we need to
determine is this:
For every person
who gets sick...
...how many other people are
they likely to infect?
So for seasonal flu, that's
usually about one.
Smallpox on the other
hand, it's over three.
Now, before we had a vaccine...
...polio spread at a rate
between four and six.
Now, we call that number...
...the R-nought.
R stands for the reproductive
rate of the virus.
Any ideas what that
might be for this?
How fast it multiplies depends
on a variety of factors.
The incubation period, how
long a person is contagious.
Sometimes people can be contagious
without even having symptoms.
We need to know that too.
We need to know how big the population of
people susceptible to the virus might be.
So far that appears to be everyone
with hands, a mouth and a nose.
Once we know the R-nought, we'll be able to
get a handle on the scale of the epidemic.
So it's an epidemic now.
An epidemic of what?
We sent samples to the CDC.
In 72 hours we'll know what
it is, if we're lucky.
Clearly, we're not lucky.
What do we got?
A young woman in Minnesota,
recently traveled to China.
Son also died.
As of this morning,
87 cases, 15 deaths.
- Did you have a good Thanksgiving?
- I worked.
You? Really?
Texas. Salmonella.
Pretty limited.
Mine was great, thanks.
It's pleomorphic but tends
toward ovoid in shape.
I see structures on the surface
that look like glycoproteins...
...but there's nothing
morphologically pathognomonic.
We tested all her antibodies. I
didn't see much cross-reactivity.
Her body had no idea what to do
with it. It just kept amplifying.
Send it to Sussman
in San Francisco.
If he doesn't know what
it is, nobody does.
It shows novel characteristics and
appears to be chimeric in origin.
Virus is 15 to 19 kilobases in length
and containing six to 10 genes.
Typical of a paramyxovirus.
It's Godzilla, King Kong and
Frankenstein all in one.
- Hold on. Shit, I'll call you back.
- You've got it in there.
- Get away from here.
- Where'd it come from? Military?
You're not a doctor and
you're not a writer.
Yes, I am a writer. Yes, I am.
Blogging is not writing. It's
graffiti with punctuation.
I am a journalist, and there's informed
discussion on the blogosphere...
...that this is a
biological weapon.
You wanna talk to me, call my
office and make an appointment.
- Dr. Cheever?
- Yes.
- Do you have a moment?
- Sure.
We found him. Tell the unit on the
way to his house to come in.
Excuse me. Who are you?
My name is Dennis French with the
Department of Homeland Security.
And what's this all about?
Rear Admiral Haggerty's expecting us
in the emergency operations center.
We can discuss it there.
This happened in Kowloon.
Today we've got workers at a casino
in Macao striking over conditions.
Three have died in one bunkhouse, CIA
thinks there may be a connection.
Casinos are of particular concern
to Homeland Security.
Someone's ready to blow themselves up
at a pizzeria or the local market...
the thought of getting themselves
sick with smallpox...
...and walking through a crowded
casino must have crossed their mind.
What did they die
of, the three?
Reports are vague.
Seizures, comas.
We've reached out to the WHO,
see what they know.
If you were gonna plan it,
can't think of a better time.
- Plan what?
- An attack.
Is there any way someone could
weaponize the bird flu?
Someone doesn't have to
weaponize the bird flu.
The birds are doing that.
Officials are reporting the closing
of Mondale Elementary School...
in suburban Minneapolis...
in response to the recent outbreak
of a still-unknown disease...
...that has so far taken the life of
a school nurse and three students.
Other schools in District 281
will remain open...
...but parents have been notified to
keep home any children with symptoms.
The Department of Health
is awaiting confirmation...
but sources say these new cases may
be connected to the sudden death...
of a 34-year-old AIMM
Alderson executive...
...and her 6-year-old son
this holiday weekend.
Hello. I'm Dr. Mears.
I'm an Epidemic Intelligence
Service officer...
...and I'm here from Atlanta to find
out what happened to Beth Emhoff.
Okay, I'm gonna ask you some
questions and see if...
There was a package she
messengered from Hong Kong.
- I opened it with scissors. I'm not sure if...
- No. It shouldn't be an issue.
Virus can't live for
days on a box.
We did Pilates together.
I called her after she got back.
I never heard from her.
- So you had no contact with her?
- No.
- Did she go to the class?
- I didn't see her there.
We had coffee the day she left.
I think she might have moved my cup
because it was on some papers.
- I can't remember.
- How many days ago?
About ten days.
That's okay. The incubation
period is less than that.
Is there anyone else who might
have had contact with her?
- This was everyone.
- Aaron Barnes did.
Barnes? He worked on
another floor.
There were documents she needed.
He picked her up from the airport.
He picked her up from the
airport? Where is he?
Hello?
- Hello? Mr. Barnes?
- Hello? Yes.
This is Dr. Mears from the
Centers for Disease Control.
- I believe...
- Hi.
Hi. I believe you may have had contact
with Beth Emhoff last week.
Yeah, I picked her up at the
airport. What's this about?
- And how are you feeling today?
- Pretty cruddy, to be honest.
My head is pounding. I probably
picked up some bug.
- Where are you right now?
- I'm on the bus, heading to work.
- I'd like you to get off immediately.
- What?
- He's on a bus.
- Where?
Where? Where's the bus, Aaron?
- Lake and Lyndale. What's going on?
- Lake and Lyndale.
I really need you to
get off that bus.
It's possible you've come in contact
with an infectious disease...
...and you're highly contagious.
Do you understand?
I want you to get off now and
stay away from other people.
Now what do I do?
Don't talk to anyone,
don't touch anyone.
That's the most important thing.
- We'll send somebody to meet the bus.
- Okay.
I'm on my way to
you now, Aaron.
What about my kids?
I touched them.
It was a groundbreaking ceremony
for a new factory.
She traveled a lot for work.
Did her work involve contact
with livestock in any way?
- Did you keep any pets at home?
- No.
No.
Did she mention seeing
anyone who was sick?
Anyone on a plane?
No.
She went through customs
in Chicago at 11:15 AM...
...and then took a flight
to Minneapolis at 6 PM.
Any idea what she did in Chicago
during that layover?
Did she have meetings?
Is there any reason she might
have left the airport?
Why? I mean, is there
someone sick in Chicago?
Before we were married my
wife had a relationship...
...with a man in Chicago
named Jon Neal.
Is Jon Neal sick?
Did we get this from him?
- We're investigating all the possibilities.
- No. I think I have a right to know.
Look at where I am here.
- I can't disclose that information. I'm sorry.
- No, I'm just... trying to understand.
I know.
We're getting the same
results as Sussman.
We've sequenced the virus,
determined its origin...
...and we've modeled the way it enters
the cells of the lung and the brain.
The virus contains both
bat and pig sequences.
The dark green is pig and
the light green is bat.
And here you can see
the crossover event.
Bat, bat, and pig, bat.
And here is a model of the virus
and how it attaches to its host.
The blue is virus, and the gold is human and
the red is the viral attachment protein...
...and the green is its receptor
in the human cells.
These receptors are found in the cells
of both the respiratory tract...
...and the central nervous system.
And the virus attaches to the cell
like a key slipping into a lock.
Somewhere in the world, the wrong
pig met up with the wrong bat.
- You ever seen anything like this before?
- No. And it's still changing.
It's figuring us out faster
than we're figuring it out.
It doesn't have anything
else to do.
So we have a novel virus with a
mortality rate in the low 20s...
...no treatment protocol and
no vaccine at this time.
That is correct.
From here on out, I want no one
working on this except at BSL-4.
Last thing we need is for this to walk out of
the lab on the bottom of someone's shoe.
Dr. Sussman's office.
Lan, hi. Ally Hextall.
We need to shut you down.
This thing's too hot.
- BSL-4 only at this point.
- I think that's a mistake.
Cook your samples.
Destroy everything.
- We can't risk it.
- We're making progress.
You limit this to government-run
BSL-4s, it'll take forever.
I can do this.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
Sure, Ally.
Can you repeat the affected
cities so far?
Again, the affected cities are...
...Minneapolis, Chicago, Los
Angeles, Boston and Salt Lake.
We expect that list to grow...
...as people return home
from their holidays.
Yes?
Dr. Cheever, how many
people are infected...
...and how many have died?
Those numbers are changing
as we speak...
...so any figure I give
you is likely to be low.
We're still calculating the
mortality rate at this time.
Dr. Cheever, are
you concerned...
that the CDC faces a
credibility issue here...
...after the perceived
overreaction to H1N1?
I'd rather the story be
that we overreacted...
...than that many people lost their
lives because we didn't do enough.
That's why we're here.
It's also why the World Health Organization
is sending an epidemiologist to Hong Kong.
Hard to know what it is
without where it came from.
Our first job with these things
is to find ground zero.
Figure out how it jumped
into the population.
We do know that a
patient in Minnesota...
...traveled to that
part of the world.
We believe that there are approximately
89,000 cases at this point...
...and that we are heading
toward 267,000.
And from there, using our model,
based on an R-nought of two...
...here is where we expect
to be in 48 hours.
Dr. Cheever, perhaps you can
update us on the research.
As of right now, no one has found a
good way to grow the virus in cells.
Why is that?
Because it kills every cell we put
it in. A pig, a chicken, everything.
Until we can grow it and a great deal
of it, we can't experiment with it.
And until then, we can't
vaccinate against it.
Have you found any treatment at
all? Any antivirus? Anything?
No.
Beth Emhoff used an ATM
at a casino in Macao.
Citibank released her records.
We have her using the machine at
10:43 just off the casino floor.
I wanna see the casino security footage
for two hours on either side of that.
Is there a problem?
Oh, they're from my village.
They found a new cluster there.
- Is your family still there?
- My mother has symptoms.
I'll get you the footage
you require. Excuse me.
Dr. Sussman, I heard that
they were shutting us down.
Yeah, I just have to deal
with the samples.
If it's just a matter of
destroying them, I can do it.
No, I'll take care of it.
You go on home.
I'll do that and then I just
want to recheck some data.
He grew it.
He tried antibodies and
immunological MAC outlines...
...but the key was a fetal-bat
cell line from Geelong.
- We didn't have it.
- He grew it in a BSL-3.
Ally, what the hell was he doing
working with it in a BSL-3?
Ignoring me.
He's gonna publish. Shit.
What does he want?
A box of cigars. He had
a choice, Ellis.
He could have gone into
business for himself.
There's no doubt he was approached,
but he gave it to us.
- And we're supposed to trust him?
- We don't have a choice.
The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention in the United States...
and the World Health
Organization in Switzerland...
confirmed today that Dr. Lan
Sussman of San Francisco...
...has succeeded in growing the MEV-1
virus in a laboratory setting.
Officials at the CDC cautioned that the
breakthrough is only the first step...
toward developing a vaccine...
...which is likely still months
away from human trials.
The WHO estimates the number of people
infected worldwide to be over 8 million.
Now it all changes.
Sussman gets anointed by the
National Academy of Sciences...
...and every pharmaceutical
executive gets a hard-on.
They'll be growing the virus
in every lab on Earth.
It's a bad day to
be a rhesus monkey.
Crikey, first we shoot them into space.
Now we'll be shooting them full of virus.
So this is where we
need your expertise.
Pharmaceutical stocks are
already through the roof.
What's next? Where's
the opportunity?
Now, you saw that Shinko
bus thing day one.
That's why we wanted
this meeting.
When I turned on my
computer this morning...
...I had over two million unique
visitors, all looking for the truth.
You think they wanna see me talking
to some hedge-fund guy?
Mr. Krumwiede, we don't
invent need here.
We just analyze it, predict it.
You tell me what it costs to
look into your crystal ball.
You're familiar with forsythia?
- No, I'm not.
- What I'm about to tell you is backed up...
...by testimonials that will
appear shortly in the media.
I'll be talking about it extensively
in the days ahead.
What does forsythia do?
It's the cure.
If I'm immune, can't you use
my blood to cure this?
Blood serums can take a long time
to make, and are very expensive.
But the good news here is that
you're not going to get sick.
Okay...
Then that would mean that my daughter
can't get it either, right?
I can't promise you that.
But isn't that something that
she would inherit from me?
Well, half her immune
system came from you...
...but the other half
came from her mother.
Almost three hours.
I need to see a doctor or
a supervisor or something.
I wanna know if he has
this thing on the news.
I'm sorry sir, we're
doing the best we can.
Can I just speak to an administrator
or something? Anybody.
Sir, please be patient.
We'll get you in...
He's sick!
My wife makes me take off
my clothes in the garage.
Then she leaves out a bucket
of warm water and some soap.
And then she douses everything in
hand sanitizer after I leave.
I mean, she's overreacting, right?
Not really. And stop touching
your face, Dave.
Okay, we'll put the
air lock here.
I want 25 rows of 10 beds apiece.
The most febrile cases at this end.
We'll set up triage outside, FEMA
can handle food in the basement...
...and we'll need to be operational
within the next 24 to 48 hours.
Gotcha.
- Nice job, Dave. This will work.
- Thanks.
Now find me three
more just like it.
Excuse me, Dr. Mears. Is this coming
out of your budget or ours?
WHO has confirmed that
the Hong Kong sample...
matches London, Tokyo
and Abu Dhabi...
...and we're seeing large clusters
in from Frankfurt and Cairo.
Are we any closer to
an index patient?
Could be your Beth Emhoff or
the guy on the bus in Japan.
Someone else who crawled off
the grid. How you doing?
Yeah, good. I'm going
into a meeting with...
No, I didn't ask what you were doing,
I asked how you were doing.
How are you doing?
I'm...
I'm fine.
Fine?
You know, I was in the
field for 15 years.
I've seen a lot of shit. If you're
not doing fine, you can tell me.
You ever have to tell a man who
just lost his wife and stepson...
...that his wife was cheating
on him before she died?
No, I haven't.
I'm sure you did the
best you could.
You sound tired.
You gotta try to remember
to sleep once in a while.
When was the last time you had something
that didn't come out of a vending machine?
Taco Bell.
Local officials are now saying over
3000 cases have been confirmed...
in the western suburbs...
as well as the first cases reported in
Ramsey, Carlton and Saint Louis counties...
...as the virus
continues to spread.
- Got it!
- A state Health Department spokesperson...
...at this hour is appealing to hospitals
as far away as Iowa for medicine.
No, don't open that door.
Don't open the door.
- It's Andrew.
- Sorry Andrew, I can't let you in.
I just came to give my
condolences, Mr. Emhoff.
I understand. Thank you.
But I can't let you in.
I'll just leave them, then.
No, actually, you should take
them. Thank you, though.
- I'll call you later.
- Bye.
We just, you know, aren't
gonna take any chances.
- Do you know how to play this?
- No, I have no idea what's going on.
But it looks fun.
You wanna try?
Okay.
We'll see.
Hello. Hi.
Oh yeah, my turn, okay.
This one. Crab. Okay.
Hey.
Oh, my God. I'll do... what
is that? Which one is this?
- Coin.
- It's a coin.
Okay, okay, okay.
It's transmission. So we just
need to know which direction.
But we don't know
where it comes from.
I would like to suggest that
the virus started before Macao...
...and maybe here in Hong Kong.
You're considering pronouncements
with serious implications.
A virus is too small to
be seen on video camera.
Please, God.
No, no, no.
Hello?
This is Dr. Erin
Mears in Room 821.
I need you to get me the names of everyone
who serviced this room in the last 24 hours.
Also, you need to get in
touch with the waiter...
...who brought me my room
service last night.
I need all of their numbers.
Home, cell, everything, yes.
Mears?
Dr. Cheever...
...I think I'm sick.
What? What's going on? What
kind of symptoms do you have?
Can't swallow.
Severe headache.
What's your temperature?
- 101.8.
- Listen, you can't... you just...
- You can't panic now, okay?
- I know.
- Are you alone?
- I've definitely infected other people.
You don't know that.
- So, what should I do?
- Well, I want you to stay in your room.
I'll call the Health Department,
tell them you're there.
- Erin, just... you're gonna be okay.
- No, I know. I know.
- Okay.
- You gotta send somebody else.
Yes, but you don't worry
about that right now, okay?
- Hey, I'm...
- You take care of yourself.
I'm sorry I couldn't finish.
That's... never mind that. Let me see what
I can do about getting you back here.
- I'm gonna get you home if I can, healthy.
- Thank you.
- Now, you hang in there.
- Bye.
The problem is, we just can't
take delivery of the bodies.
We have insurance issues
with our own employees...
...with our union, not to mention the
health of the mourners, to consider.
I just, I wanna bury my
wife and my stepson...
and have a service where our
friends and our family can come...
...and pay their
respects and grieve.
I understand and I am truly
sorry about your loss.
Have you considered
other options?
How can they do that? We
have a family plot here.
They want us to think
about cremation.
They just say that it's the safest
thing in a situation like this.
I wanna be buried with my
daughter and grandson...
...with Jack and my parents.
I want us all together.
They're not gonna take them, Sarah.
They're not gonna take the bodies.
I'll figure something out.
She made mistakes, Mitch...
...but I know she
loved you very much.
I'm gonna use some of these
to get us some drinks, okay?
You have not reached Jon Neal...
...but you will if
you leave a message.
Hi. It's me.
I checked the flights and I can
actually get an earlier flight...
that would give me a five
hour layover in Chicago...
...so let me know if that's something
that you'd like me to do.
- That's for you, okay?
- Oh, thank you.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
- Excuse me.
- Oh, my God.
Thank...
- Emhoff gave it to the Ukrainian.
- That just shows contact.
Maybe it went the other way.
What about Li Fai?
- He was on the casino floor.
- Watch this.
Oh, good. Okay, come on. Let's
get one together. Ready?
Cheers.
Let's go.
That's him with
Emhoff at 12:08.
I can show you the Ukrainian woman on
the security camera in the elevator...
...going back to her room
twenty minutes earlier.
She was gone before
Li Fai started work.
It came from here.
Emhoff is the index patient.
We need to know everywhere
she went before the casino.
I want to see her
itinerary again.
They say the French and
Americans have a cure.
They're manufacturing
it in secret.
WHO knows but they're in
bed with the Americans.
- Who says?
- The Internet.
- The Internet? And you believe it?
- I don't know.
How's your mother?
We tried forsythia but
she wasn't strong.
There's a mass grave in Lan Tau.
I'm sorry.
I'm taking this to the ministry.
We need to send this to Geneva.
I need you to come with me.
- What are you doing?
- Please.
No.
What's going on, Sun Feng?
694b
What's going on?
What are you doing?
- What are you doing?
- I'm sorry.
We couldn't wait any longer.
While they cure each
other, we're here...
...at the end of the line.
This is what is left
of my village.
- Are they sick?
- Not yet.
And we're gonna
keep it that way.
You'll stay here with us
until they find a cure.
How is that gonna help?
You're gonna get us to
the front of the line.
Dr. Mears.
Dr. Cheever called again.
We're just having a hard time with
the logistics of evacuating you.
Finding a plane and all.
I got your phone.
Dr. Cheever, he asked you to
call if you feel up to it.
Now, we're setting
up a special ward...
...for medical personnel and first
responders at the university.
I wanna move you there...
but the nurses' union is
calling a work stoppage...
...until protocols are in place.
There are volunteers
but it's just...
It's hard right now to know
where's the right place.
You're asking me to spend a lot
of resources on one person...
...and right now,
I can't do that.
Dr. Mears would agree with me.
She's one of our own, Lyle.
We sent her up there.
Okay, I sent her up there.
I would like to go get her back.
We have a plane with
an isolation pod...
...to bring our people in the field
home when they're sick, right?
What's going on, Lyle?
There's a sick congressman
from Illinois in D.C.
He was in Chicago
over the holiday.
They're using the pod
to fly him home.
Then they're closing down
Midway and O'Hare.
The governor is calling the National
Guard. They're setting up roadblocks.
They're shutting down trade,
public transportation.
The Teamsters are pulling
drivers off the road.
- People are still gonna slip through.
- Yes, they will.
The Secret Service is moving
the president underground.
Congress is figuring out
how to work online.
When the word goes out...
...there will be a run on the banks, gas
stations, grocery stores, you name it.
People will panic. The virus will
be the least of our worries.
It will tip over now.
We just need to make sure that nobody
knows until everybody knows.
My temperature's 101.
Higher than it was earlier.
My head hurts...
...and my throat feels
like it's closing.
This is forsythia.
I've been taking it since
the onset of the symptoms.
If I'm here tomorrow,
you'll know it works.
Truth Serum Now.
I'm Alan Krumwiede.
How many people
are gonna die?
Well, in 1918...
...one percent of the population
died from Spanish flu.
It was novel, like this, no
one had ever seen it before.
- One percent of America?
- One percent of the world.
As many as 70 million people
could die, baby, maybe more.
- So, what do we do?
- I don't know. We try to figure it out.
This is why I sent Mears
up there, to Minnesota.
And now I can't get her back.
She's sick Aubrey, and I
can't do anything for her...
...because there are no nurses.
- Why not?
- Because they're on strike.
- How can they do that?
- Because there's nothing they can do.
We're putting healthy people
next to sick people...
...and hoping the healthy
people don't get sick.
- I'm sorry, Ellis, but that's not your fault.
- I sent her up there, Aubrey.
If one in four are dying, that means
three out of four are living, right?
So the odds are in her favor.
I want you to get in your car and
drive down here to Atlanta now.
You hear me, Aubrey?
What are you talking about?
I want you to get in your
car and leave Chicago.
I want you to drive here to
Atlanta. Drive by yourself.
You do it. You do it now. Don't
tell anyone and don't stop.
Stay away from other people, understand?
Keep your distance from other people.
Call me when you're
on the road, Aubrey.
Roger.
Did you hear?
I got people too, Dr. Cheever.
We all do.
Hello?
Hey friend, what's up with
blowing off dinner?
- I'm sorry, Liz.
- Why you so flaky? You feeling okay?
This flu sh...
...stuff is really spooky.
What does Ellis say?
He says it's... serious.
What do you mean, "serious"?
Where are you?
- I'm getting out of town.
- What?
I'm gonna tell
you something...
...and you're not
gonna repeat it.
- Cover your mouth, please.
- Fuck off, lady.
We will only be able to
give out 50 doses today.
- What?
- That's our allotment.
This is bullshit.
Hey. There... excuse me, there's
a line here. Excuse me!
Jesus.
Where's the fire department?
Is anyone even working here?
Just get the cereal.
- Jory, don't touch anything.
- Help me.
Okay, take your gloves off.
Here, give me your hands.
Okay. I want you to
really rub this in.
Okay, okay, come on.
Come on, come on.
Hey, get away from
there. Get away.
Lock the door.
Get back in your car, sir.
Get back in your car.
- No, no, I'm not... I'm immune.
- Stay back.
I've already had it.
- And my daughter's not sick.
- She's sick?
She's not, no. We're just
trying to get to Wisconsin.
The border is sealed. The governor
has declared a quarantine.
Get back in your car.
No, we don't wanna go back
there. We wanna go across.
- There is no way across. Get in your car.
- We're not sick.
Get back in your car
or I will detain you.
Where?
Get in the car!
- What happened?
- We have to go home.
What are you doing here?
I think I had a seizure.
I can't... find any in
the stores. I tried.
Look, I don't have any here.
People broke in.
I'm... pregnant, Alan.
And I have... money.
I can give you some money.
Lorraine, you shouldn't be out.
- Please, Alan.
- Go home.
I'll bring it to
you when I get it.
I was wondering if I could
get another blanket.
This one's very damp now.
I'm truly sorry, sir.
We're out of blankets.
We're hoping for more to be
donated. We put the word out.
What about the heat?
Can we turn that up?
I'll find out.
- When did we run out of body bags?
- Two days ago.
We're trying to get more in from Canada
but they just wanna wait and see.
There are stories on the Internet
that in India and elsewhere...
...the drug ribavirin has been shown
to be effective against this virus.
Yet Homeland Security is telling the
CDC not to make any announcements...
...until stockpiles of the
drug could be secured.
Well, Dr. Gupta, there continue to
be evaluations of several drugs.
Ribavirin is among them.
But right now, our best defense
has been social distancing.
No hand-shaking, staying
home when you're sick...
...washing your
hands frequently.
Can you tell us, to date, how many
people have died from this virus?
Very difficult. We're still working
on confirming that number.
There are fifty different
states in this country...
which means there are fifty
different Health Departments...
...followed by fifty
different protocols.
Let me bring Alan Krumwiede
into this debate as well.
Alan's a freelance journalist.
He was the first to track the
"Shinko Bus Man" video.
Alan, today on Twitter...
you wrote that the truth about this
virus is being kept from the world...
by the CDC, by the World
Health Organization...
to allow friends of the
administration to benefit from it...
...both financially
and physically.
There are therapies we know are
effective right now, like forsythia...
...and they don't even
appear on the CDC website.
On your blog, you also wrote...
...that the World Health Organization is
in bed with pharmaceutical companies?
Because they are.
That's who stands to gain from this.
They're working hand in glove.
And the hand is reaching
into our pockets.
The CDC is exploring forsythia and
other homeopathic treatments.
But right now, there's no science
to back any of these claims.
Or no way Dr. Cheever or the people who
put him into power can profit from it.
We're not ruling anything out.
There are people who are sick, people
who are dying and we are doing...
They're not keeping us safe
from this any more than...
We're concerned about
every American citizen.
Dr. Cheever is being a bit disingenuous
when he says every American citizen.
We're working very hard to find out
where this virus came from, treat it...
...and vaccinate against it if we can.
We don't know all of that
yet, we just don't.
What we do know is that
in order to become sick...
...you have to first come in contact with
a sick person or something they touched.
In order to get scared, all you have to
do is come in contact with a rumor...
...television or the Internet.
I think what Mr. Krumwiede is spreading
is far more dangerous than the disease.
- Oh, really?
- Yes.
- That's funny.
- What's funny?
You're funny, because if
you check on Facebook...
you'll find a communiqué attributed to
Dr. Cheever by Elizabeth Nygaard...
...about the quarantine of Chicago hours
before it was announced to the public.
That's why I think he's
a bit disingenuous...
...when he says equal care for
all and not just his friends.
Some pretty wild allegations
here, Dr. Cheever.
Can you tell us what communication
appeared and when?
What is the nature of your
relationship with Nygaard?
I'm not aware of anything attributed
to me on any social network.
I'm sure you're not. It is
there. It is there.
Tell them what an R-nought of
two really means, Dr. Cheever.
Teach them some math.
No? I'll do it.
On day one, there were two people
with it and then there were four.
And then it was 16, and you think
you've got it in front of you...
but next it's 256, and
then it's 65,000...
...and it's behind you, above
you and all around you.
In thirty steps, it's
a billion sick.
Three months. It's a math problem
you can do on a napkin.
And that's where we're headed.
And that's why you won't even tell
us the number of the dead...
...will you, Dr. Cheever?
But you'll tell your friends
when to get out of Chicago...
...before anyone
else has a chance.
They're looking
for a scapegoat.
You just made it easy.
The only reason we're not taking
this to the attorney general...
...is because we can't
replace you right now.
But there's gonna be an investigation.
Do you understand that?
And we don't wanna see you in
front of the cameras anymore.
Where did you come from?
- It's mutated.
- Which way, better or worse?
It's moved into an African
HIV/AIDS population.
The Durban cluster is
highly divergent.
We have a new R-nought, Ellis.
It's not two anymore.
I thought you said once we could grow
it, we could vaccinate against it.
We tried using dead virus combined with
atrophins to boost immune response.
And?
No protective antibodies,
a lot of dead monkeys.
- Can you get to the good news?
- Now we have to try a live attenuated virus.
- Like with polio?
- Exactly.
The only danger with a live virus...
...is the possibility that it will
revert to wild type and kill the host.
And when will we
know about that?
I'll ask the monkeys.
As of right now, the mortality
rate is fluctuating...
between 25 and 30 percent...
depending upon underlying
medical conditions...
...socioeconomic factors,
nutrition, fresh water.
With the new mutation...
...we are predicting an R-nought
of no less than four.
And without a vaccine,
we can anticipate...
...that approximately one in 12 people
on the planet will contract the disease.
Folks, attention.
We appreciate your patience and
we're doing the best we can.
We have exhausted our supply of
meals ready-to-eat for today.
What?
Please remain calm.
We'll be sending...
Please... Hey. Can we get
some help over here?
Leave the park in an
orderly fashion.
Help me!
- You okay?
- Thank you.
- Sorry, they got one of them.
- Get the trucks!
Get the trucks!
There's... nothing in there!
As the death toll in the United
States is now believed...
to have reached 2.5 million...
the president issued a statement today
from an undisclosed location...
implementing mandatory curfews
in major metropolitan areas...
...after a second consecutive day of riots
in Dallas, Miami, Cleveland and Phoenix.
Absenteeism in law enforcement
is nearing 25 percent.
Because of the high
volume of 911 calls...
...please use the
following directory:
If you have symptoms, please
hang up and call 612-188-6336.
To report a death or for the removal
of a body, please press 1.
Hello? Anybody home?
Hey, Mark?
Hey, Jor?
Jor?
I can't feel my hands.
That messed up my snow angel.
I'm fine, Jory.
If neither of us have it, then
we can't give it to each other.
- Get away from her.
- Dad!
- Get away. Get away.
- What are you doing?
- Stay there.
Go home, Andrew.
Get up.
Are we even close?
If we even had a viable
vaccine right now...
...we would still have to do human
trials, and that would take weeks.
And then we would have to
get clearance and approval...
...figure out manufacturing
and distribution.
That would take months.
And then training survivors
to give inoculations.
More months, more deaths.
Well, Homeland Security
wants to know...
...if we can put a vaccination in
the water supply, like fluoride.
Cure everyone all at once.
I'm going home now, Ellis.
It's getting late.
Merry Christmas.
- What are you doing?
- It's okay, Dad.
- No, it's not okay.
- Do you remember Dr. Barry Marshall?
Thought that bacteria caused
ulcers, not stress.
Gave himself the bug and
then cured himself.
You taught me about him.
I'm testing my vaccine.
No, this is different.
I don't want to
get you sick.
Ally, you can't
take that chance.
Dad, you're here because you
stayed in your practice...
...treating sick people after
everyone else went home.
You took that chance. You took
that chance every day.
What?
He won a Nobel Prize.
- Yes, I know, Dad.
- Barry Marshall.
The Food and Drug Administration
is accelerating approval...
of the MEV-1 vaccine...
currently in production at five secret
locations in the U.S. And Europe...
...saying the first doses could be
available for human use within 90 days.
The WHO estimates that it
could take nearly a year...
to manufacture and distribute the
necessary amount of the vaccine...
to stop the spread of the virus...
...which so far has taken over
26 million lives worldwide.
Who gets it first?
- Don't touch me.
- Where is it?
- We don't have it.
- Bullshit. He works there. He gets it first.
We don't have it.
We have to wait...
- Aubrey?
- Ellis?
Where are you?
It's because they saw you on the news
and they heard about what happened.
- You all right?
- They knew where you worked.
They waited for you to leave.
- Get up here. Come on. Let me look at you.
- I tried to stop them.
I tried.
- Did they touch you? Did they look sick?
- They had masks on, Ellis, and gloves.
Don't tell me that... Aubrey,
we get the vaccine tomorrow.
You have to trust me, Ellis.
They didn't touch me.
After the Spanish flu in 1918,
you know, people got rich.
The Vicks VapoRub people, the
Lysol people, look it up.
One man dies, another man
makes money off his coffin.
One country culls all their chickens,
red meat goes into higher demand.
I'm not the first person
to make money...
...off the fact that our immune
system is a work in progress.
The pharmaceutical industry
do it every quarter.
I don't think anyone is immune
to opportunity, Alan.
It's just that studies show that there
is no proof that forsythia works.
Who conducted the studies?
What defines "works"? Against
what strain of the virus?
Did you know about the studies
when we met the last time?
We can get in a
lot of trouble...
Do you really think this Dr. Hextall
CDC person is Jesus in a lab coat?
The government rushed the trials.
The lawyers indemnified
the drug companies.
Maybe it causes autism or narcolepsy
or cancer ten years from now.
Who knows?
You... the...
...the swine flu vaccine
killed people back in 1976.
Nerve disease.
So we're all guinea pigs,
starting from today.
Just wait, they'll start listing side effects
like the credits at the end of a movie.
People trust you, Alan. If you
tell them not to take it...
That's right.
They trust me. All twelve
million unique visitors.
I'm a trusted man stepping
up to a microphone...
...in front of a
very large crowd.
That's who I am.
That's the brand.
I say the right thing, nobody
shows up for their shot.
Maybe they'd rather roll
the dice with forsythia.
I can make that happen.
I just wanna know I'm in the best
position possible when I do.
What does that mean, exactly?
If I'm gonna step into the crosshairs,
I wanna know what's in...
- Is he with you?
- What? Who?
Are you wearing a wire?
Alan, I didn't have a choice.
They've seen your blog.
Get him.
- Far enough, far enough.
- For what? Tell me, for what?
Securities fraud, conspiracy,
and most likely manslaughter.
- It cured me. Forsythia cured me.
- We'll see, Alan.
This is entrapment.
You can't take my blood. You
can't, that's my property.
We may never know where
this disease came from.
But we do know that this
vaccine is the result...
...of the courage and perseverance
of a remarkable few.
We shall now begin
the drawing. John.
The first MEV-1 vaccination...
...are those people
born on March 10th.
March 10th.
We remind all of you to stay ten
feet apart from each other...
...while on line.
Shouldn't you be downstairs?
I'm tracking vaccine
batch numbers.
This is what you have to be
doing right this minute?
This is what I want to do
right this minute.
Take a bow, Ally.
People have for a lot less.
It's not that hard to give
yourself an injection.
What about Mears or
my father or you?
I'm gonna take a bow while you
get hauled in front of Congress?
What do I say when
they ask about that?
You tell them that I told a loved
one who told a loved one...
...and that I'd do it again.
Without you... Ally, you have
saved millions of lives.
That's a great story. It also
happens to be true.
Now, how often can
you say that?
The next citizens to receive
the MEV-1 vaccination...
are those born on the date...
What is that? January 11th.
Okay. All right, 144.
That's... there's
still two-hundred...
More than two-hundred birthdays hon, that
haven't been called, so that's good.
That's a good number.
- What if they run out?
- They're not gonna run out.
They have enough to keep up with
demand. They said that already.
Maybe I'm immune like you
and I don't even need it.
That's not a chance
we're gonna take.
So instead we lose spring,
we lose summer...
...we lose another 144 days
that don't happen again.
Why can't they invent a shot
that keeps time from passing?
It's gonna start getting
normal again, Jory.
How do you call this,
"fish" in Chinese?
This is yú.
- This is beautiful.
- Thank you.
It's time. We have to
run. He just landed.
I want you to keep drawing...
...and Assand will come and
finish the class, all right?
I'll see you soon.
- See you.
Tsuen Wan Cemetery off
the Number 3 Expressway.
It's close to where you
are now. In 15 minutes.
One hundred doses. Nobody from
the ministry, no police.
If we see anybody else, any other
vehicles, you'll never see her again.
Yes?
Yes, I'm fine. Please give
them what they ask.
I just wanna go home.
Once we have the vaccine, we'll
tell you where to find her.
- Is it French or American?
- We could not get enough from the French.
It's been made here. The
same formula, though.
It is effective, I promise.
There, be careful.
Wait, where is she?
- We don't know what it is.
- Well, we have no choice.
Where is Dr. Orantes?
Now, wait, this is not
what we agreed on.
Are you okay?
Yes, I'm fine.
I'm good.
Oh, I almost forgot.
- What's that?
- Your vaccine.
The one you took was a placebo.
What?
The Chinese insisted. There have been
many abductions, not just here.
In Russia, Mexico, all over.
Government officials, scientists
or Westerners with great wealth.
Mostly perpetrated by organized
crime or revolutionary groups...
...trying to extort medicines.
The Chinese don't negotiate with
kidnappers. It wasn't up to us.
We've got a limited supply,
just like everyone else.
Leo... Leonora.
Where are you going?
Blood results came
back, Mr. Krumwiede.
You never had the virus. You
have no antibodies. You lied.
Of course that's
what your labs say.
Forsythia is a lie.
It's a lie and you made $4.5
million for telling it.
You wanna blog about that?
You are going to go away, Mr. Krumwiede,
and so is all your money.
I can't even imagine all the civil suits
people are gonna file against you...
...and I have a pretty
good imagination.
Now you wanna tell people
not to get vaccinated...
...when that's the best
chance they've got.
If I could throw your computer
in jail, I would.
Made bail.
Are we done here?
Evidently, there are 12 million
other people as crazy as you are.
You made bail. Congratulations.
Cheever and wife. Congratulate
Aubrey for me.
I'd shake your hand but I don't
wanna set a bad example.
We're gonna have an official reception
when we can get everybody in one place...
...and we really hope
you can be with us.
Sure. So are you ready for
yours? I've got mine.
No, I think she's gonna
wanna do these together.
I know she sprang
for some champagne.
They have scheduled the hearings.
We'll both be expected to testify.
Right.
Good luck.
Head back, Anthony.
There you go.
Good job.
I can't give him the bracelet but
at least you know he'll be safe.
Yeah, beats waiting
another seven months.
Okay, what do you say?
- Thank you.
- You're welcome, Anthony.
You know where this comes
from, shaking hands?
No.
It was a way of showing a stranger you
weren't carrying a weapon in the old days.
- Good job. Now go finish your homework.
- Okay.
Yeah.
You offered your empty right hand
to show that you meant no harm.
- I didn't know that.
- I wonder if the virus does.
Well, Dr. Cheever, thanks.
Take care, Roger.
You too.
You're not gonna get in
trouble for this, are you?
Will you be quiet?
My number is 287, Ellis.
If we weren't married, I'd
have to wait almost a year.
Then it's a good thing
we're married.
Hold your head back.
I don't wanna give them another
reason to go after you.
Will you please be quiet
and hold your head back?
Okay, go.
Good.
And go.
All right.
Like you said, baby...
...just taking care of everybody
that's in my lifeboat.
Dad, are you coming?
Yep.
I'm just looking
for the camera.
1218b